# Pulse-Position-modulaion-and-demodulation
Pulse Position modulaion and demodulation simulation on proteus

PPM is an analog modulating technique where the position of each pulse in relation to a reference pulse varies depending on the instantaneous sampled value of the message signal while the amplitude and breadth of the pulses are kept constant.
To keep the transmitter and receiver in sync, the transmitter must deliver synchronizing pulses, also known as sync pulses. These sync pulses aid in keeping the pulses in place. 
According to the pulse width modulated signal, pulse position modulation is applied. Every tail of the pulse width modulated signal serves as the beginning of a PPM signal pulse. As a result, the relationship between the position of these pulses and the PWM pulse width is established

The modulation approach seeks to match the informational signal's frequency range to the transmission channel. This lessens the impact of the noise and prevents a significant attenuation of certain frequencies on the transmission channel. Additionally, the narrow band transmission modulation approach, which necessitates a transposition of the low frequencies towards the high frequencies, is utilized when transmitting the informative signal (or helpful information) over long distances. There are several forms of modulation depending on the carrier signal's nature and the information signal's (analog or digital) nature (analogical or digital). The type of modulation to select actually depends on the practical application. Frequency transposition is required for baseband transmission or transmission over short distances. This type of transmission utilizes copper wire, coaxial cable, the twisted pair or optical fiber as physical support; to transport pulse trains. In this article, we consider the narrow band transmission. We choose an informative signal of low-frequency analogical nature (for example the human voice) and a carrier signal of high-frequency digital nature (for example the clock signal). For frequency transposition, we use a modulator with adapted sensitivity. Indeed, we simulate signals modulated in amplitude (PAM, Pulse Amplitude Modulation), in width (PWM, Pulse Width Modulation), and in position (PPM, Pulse Position Modulation). On an illustrative basis, we simulated the case of an audio informative signal. We analyze obtained results from the simulation and recall the advantages, disadvantages, and applicability of each type of modulation. The modulation software used is ISIS from proteus. Let us mention that obtained results from the simulation are a little different from those of the real world because of the performance of the utilized
Software and other environmental parameters. PAM, PWM, and PPM modulations are particularly employed for the analogical transmissions of the signals on optical fibers, in remote control IRE or telemetry.
The technique of modulation allows the transmitted signal to have the same band frequency as the message signal. 
